website/docs/web.md, before:

---
id: web
title: Web
---

To render a game for the browser use the `@replay/web` package.

### `renderCanvas(game, loadingTextures, assets, dimensions, canvas)`

#### Parameters

- `game`: Your [Top-Level Game](top-level-game.md) Sprite called with its props passed in, e.g. `Game(gameProps)`.
- `loadingTextures`: (Optional) An array of textures to show while the game is loading.
- `assets`: (Optional) An object containing image and audio file names to load.
- `dimensions`: (Optional) A string that is either:
  - `"game-coords"`: (default) Use the game coordinates as pixels in the browser.
  - `"scale-up"`: Scales the game so that it fills up the browser window.
- `canvas`: (Optional) A canvas element to render to. If omitted, Replay will create a canvas in the document.

```js
import { renderCanvas } from "@replay/web";
import { t } from "@replay/core";
import { Game, gameProps } from "../src";

const loadingTextures = [
  t.text({
    color: "black",
    text: "Loading...",
  }),
];

renderCanvas(
  Game(gameProps),
  loadingTextures,
  {
    imageFileNames: ["player.png"],
    audioFileNames: ["shoot.wav"],
  },
  "scale-up"
);
```

### `mapInputCoordinates(getLocalCoords, inputs)`

This can be used by [Replay Test](test.md), see the docs there for more info.

## Inputs

The `device.inputs` parameter of Sprite methods is of type:

```ts
type WebInputs = {
  keysDown: KeysPressed;
  keysJustPressed: KeysPressed;
  pointer: {
    pressed: boolean;
    justPressed: boolean;
    justReleased: boolean;
    x: number;
    y: number;
  };
};

type KeysPressed = {
  [key: string]: true | undefined;
};
```

The keys of `KeysPressed` are based on the `key` value of browser keyboard events. See [keycode.info](https://keycode.info) for values of `event.key`.

`justPressed` is only `true` for one frame after an input is pressed, `justReleased` for one frame after an input is released.

#### Example

```js
  loop({ device, state }) {
    let { x } = state;
    // Move when space bar is down
    if (device.inputs.keysDown[" "]) {
      x += 5;
    }
    return { ...state, x };
  },
```

Commit message:

Native Sprites & TextInput (#27)
This adds Native Sprites and an implementation of one for text input fields.

Native Sprites allow anyone to easily build features into Replay it doesn't support. In theory it could be used for anything supported in the browser or mobile device (like cameras, ML tools or even a 3D renderer).

Some bug fixes in the Swift package are also included in this commit.

website/docs/web.md, after:

---
id: web
title: Web
---

To render a game for the browser use the `@replay/web` package.

### `renderCanvas(game, loadingTextures, assets, dimensions, nativeSpriteMap, canvas, windowSize)`

#### Parameters

- `game`: Your [Top-Level Game](top-level-game.md) Sprite called with its props passed in, e.g. `Game(gameProps)`.
- `loadingTextures`: (Optional) An array of textures to show while the game is loading.
- `assets`: (Optional) An object containing image and audio file names to load.
- `dimensions`: (Optional) A string that is either:
  - `"game-coords"`: (default) Use the game coordinates as pixels in the browser.
  - `"scale-up"`: Scales the game so that it fills up the browser window.
- `nativeSpriteMap`: (Optional) A map of [Native Sprite](native-sprites.md) names and their web implementation.
- `canvas`: (Optional) A canvas element to render to. If omitted, Replay will create a canvas in the document.
- `windowSize`: (Optional) An object with width and height fields. Use to override the view size, instead of using the window size.

```js
import { renderCanvas } from "@replay/web";
import { t } from "@replay/core";
import { Game, gameProps } from "../src";

const loadingTextures = [
  t.text({
    color: "black",
    text: "Loading...",
  }),
];

renderCanvas(
  Game(gameProps),
  loadingTextures,
  {
    imageFileNames: ["player.png"],
    audioFileNames: ["shoot.wav"],
  },
  "scale-up"
);
```

### `mapInputCoordinates(getLocalCoords, inputs)`

This can be used by [Replay Test](test.md), see the docs there for more info.

## Inputs

The `device.inputs` parameter of Sprite methods is of type:

```ts
type WebInputs = {
  keysDown: KeysPressed;
  keysJustPressed: KeysPressed;
  pointer: {
    pressed: boolean;
    justPressed: boolean;
    justReleased: boolean;
    x: number;
    y: number;
  };
};

type KeysPressed = {
  [key: string]: true | undefined;
};
```

The keys of `KeysPressed` are based on the `key` value of browser keyboard events. See [keycode.info](https://keycode.info) for values of `event.key`.

`justPressed` is only `true` for one frame after an input is pressed, `justReleased` for one frame after an input is released.

#### Example

```js
  loop({ device, state }) {
    let { x } = state;
    // Move when space bar is down
    if (device.inputs.keysDown[" "]) {
      x += 5;
    }
    return { ...state, x };
  },
```
