website/docs/tutorial/17.md, before:

# 17 - Storage

It would be nice to save a high score between plays! Replay provides a simple way to save things to local storage on the device.

In our top-level `Game` Sprite we add a `highScore` state field. In `init` we want to set this value to be what's saved in local storage. `device.storage.getStore()` accesses the current store, which is an object of string keys and values. If there's no `highScore` value in the store, then we set a default of `0`.

In the `gameOver` callback we'll have the `Level` Sprite pass in the current score. If it's higher than our `highScore` state value, we replace the value in the `Game` Sprite's state and the store. Calling `device.storage.setStore({ key, value })` will merge the key and value into the existing store and save it.

In the `Level` Sprite we need to pass the score into the `gameOver` callback.

In the `Menu` Sprite we read the `Game` Sprite's `highScore` value through a prop and display it. In order to have the high score text stand out a bit, we explicitly set the font name and size through the `font` prop.

Commit message:

Update storage to be key value async and rename loadFIles

website/docs/tutorial/17.md, after:

# 17 - Storage

It would be nice to save a high score between plays! Replay provides a simple way to save things to local storage on the device.

In our top-level `Game` Sprite we add a `highScore` state field. In `init` we want to set this value to be what's saved in local storage. `device.storage.getItem(key)` returns a Promise containing the string value we saved under the key `"highScore"`. When the Promise returns we update our high score field. If there's no `highScore` value saved from a previous game, then we set a default of `0`.

In the `gameOver` callback we'll have the `Level` Sprite pass in the current score. If it's higher than our `highScore` state value, we replace the value in the `Game` Sprite's state and the store. Calling `device.storage.setItem(key, value)` will save the value on the device under the key passed in.

In the `Level` Sprite we need to pass the score into the `gameOver` callback.

In the `Menu` Sprite we read the `Game` Sprite's `highScore` value through a prop and display it. In order to have the high score text stand out a bit, we explicitly set the font name and size through the `font` prop.
